I think there's no doubt the way things
are going that we will come to a time we
have computers that are equally
intelligent human beings and then even
more intelligent by which I mean being
able to do all the functions that we do
in terms of reasoning understanding
those sorts of things which are moment
very hard for computer there's a very
good number crunchers but awful pattern
recognition things and reasoning
machines I think we will have good
reasoning machines good pattern
recognition machines I don't think that
implies consciousness though that this
is my own personal belief because I
think well they will be conscious I
believe everything is conscious and I
believe it's not just human beings i
think all animals are conscious and
there's no way you draw the line it's
just the level of light gets dimmer as
you go down so that the consciousness in
a bacterium is there but it's a lot not
dimmer than human consciousness then it
goes down right down to the subatomic
level and I think computers silicon
based systems the level of organization
is basically at the crystalline level so
i think the consciousness of computer is
there but it's way below that of an
amoeba and I think my feeling is always
stay there that they won't actually wake
up internally because they have they're
not evolving beyond that basic structure
which is putting a lot of those
crystalline structures together so I
think they're actually going to have the
inner awakening that we do so they may
better simulate the responses of a human
being but I don't believe they'll
actually have the inner experience as we
do and there's no need for them to
happen and factors vary only for human
beings have means a great question about
human beings or any living systems why
are we conscious because there's nothing
in science that predicts that any living
system should ever be conscious we can
explain almost everything else about the
world how our bodies work how we evolved
all the stuff but we cannot account for
the consciousness it doesn't fit